README.md, before:

# AI - Artificial Intelligence
## What is AI?
AI is a set of technologies that enable computers to perform a variety of advanced functions.  
(Ability to see, understand and translate spoken and written language, analyze data, make recommendations,...)
<img width="500" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/33698a58-cf3e-416f-8f9a-9e6394e24b05">  
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/ai-ml-ds/?ref=shm  
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/machine-learning/  
## Concepts of AI to learn:
- ### Machine learning (ML)
- ### Deep learning (DL)
- ### Generative AI (LLMs)
- ### Data science (DS) e and analytics
- ### AI projects
- ### AI frameworks and tools (TensorFlow, PyTorch, or Scikit-learn)
------
## 1. Machine learning (ML)
ML enables computers to learn from data and make predictions.   
ML is the subset of AI that focuses on **the development of algorithms and statistical models** that enable computer systems or machines to perform tasks without being explicitly programmed to do so.  
Understanding mathematical concepts relevant to ML, such as *linear algebra, calculus, and probability*, is crucial for effectively designing and training ML models.   
<img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5eb12742-e9c8-40d2-9352-82db06ba49b2">  


------
## 2. Deep learning (DL)
Deep Learning is a subset of ML that focuses on training **artificial neural networks (ANNs)** with multiple layers to learn from large volumes of data.  
These neural networks, inspired by the structure and function of the human brain, are composed of **interconnected nodes** called **neurons**.  
The term **“deep”** refers to the **multiple layers** in these networks, allowing them to learn hierarchical representations of data.  
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/652aa89c-ab71-4614-b5c9-eff4aad4bb6c)  

Deep learning excels in tasks such as:  
| Task  | What is it | Tasks | Math | 
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |------------- |
| **Computer Vision**  | focuses on enabling computers to interpret and understand visual information from the real world, similar to the way humans do.   |image classification, object detection, facial recognition, image segmentation...   |linear algebra, calculus, and image processing techniques    |
| **Natural language processing (NLP)**  |  focuses on enabling computers to understand, interpret, and generate human language in a meaningful way.   |text and speech, to extract insights, derive meaning, sentiment analysis, language translation, named entity recognition, text summarization, and question answering.    |  probability, statistics, and machine learning    |

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/92a2ddb6-a36c-485c-867b-2810e885dd17)

------
## Machine vs deep learning
> **Deep** learning can **learn from its own errors** while **machine** learning needs a **human to intervene**.
------
## 4. Data science (DS) and analytics
Data analysis involves the process of inspecting, cleaning, transforming, and modeling data to uncover insights, patterns, and trends.  
Data Science is an interdisciplinary field that combines various techniques and methods from statistics, mathematics, computer science, and domain-specific knowledge to extract insights and knowledge from structured and unstructured data.   
<img width="400" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0e2f39fd-b755-46af-b2d3-709db85fbd46">  
## Data science vs Data Analytics
While both fields involve working with data to gain insights, **data science** often involves using data to build models that can **predict future outcomes**,  
while **data analytics** tends to focus more on **analyzing past** data to inform **decisions in the present**.

------

Commit message:

Update README with AI concepts and definitions
Expanded the README to include sections on Generative AI, Computer Vision, Speech, Natural Language Processing, and Responsible AI. Enhanced the description of AI and Machine Learning.

README.md, after:

# AI - Artificial Intelligence
## What is AI?
AI is a set of technologies that **enable computers to perform a variety of advanced functions**.  
(Ability to see, understand and translate spoken and written language, analyze data, make recommendations,...)


## Generative AI
A branch of AI that enables software applications to **generate new content**.  
Content can be: natural language dialogs, images, video, code, and other formats.   

### Language model
The ability to generate content is based on a **language model**, which has been **trained with huge volumes of data** - often documents from the Internet or other public sources of information.  
There are 2 types:  
1. **Large language models (LLMs)** - **very powerful** and generalize well, but can be **more costly** to train and use  
2. **Small language models (SLMs)** - tend to **work well** in scenarios that are more **focused on specific topic** areas, and usually **cost less**.  


## Computer vision

## Speech

## Natural language processing

## Extract data and insights

## Responsible AI

-----

<img width="500" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/33698a58-cf3e-416f-8f9a-9e6394e24b05">  
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/ai-ml-ds/?ref=shm  
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/machine-learning/  
## Concepts of AI to learn:
- ### Machine learning (ML)
- ### Deep learning (DL)
- ### Generative AI (LLMs)
- ### Data science (DS) e and analytics
- ### AI projects
- ### AI frameworks and tools (TensorFlow, PyTorch, or Scikit-learn)
------

## 1. Machine learning (ML)
ML enables computers to learn from data and make predictions.   
ML is the subset of AI that focuses on **the development of algorithms and statistical models** that enable computer systems or machines to perform tasks without being explicitly programmed to do so.  
Understanding mathematical concepts relevant to ML, such as *linear algebra, calculus, and probability*, is crucial for effectively designing and training ML models.   
<img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5eb12742-e9c8-40d2-9352-82db06ba49b2">  


------
## 2. Deep learning (DL)
Deep Learning is a subset of ML that focuses on training **artificial neural networks (ANNs)** with multiple layers to learn from large volumes of data.  
These neural networks, inspired by the structure and function of the human brain, are composed of **interconnected nodes** called **neurons**.  
The term **“deep”** refers to the **multiple layers** in these networks, allowing them to learn hierarchical representations of data.  
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/652aa89c-ab71-4614-b5c9-eff4aad4bb6c)  

Deep learning excels in tasks such as:  
| Task  | What is it | Tasks | Math | 
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |------------- |
| **Computer Vision**  | focuses on enabling computers to interpret and understand visual information from the real world, similar to the way humans do.   |image classification, object detection, facial recognition, image segmentation...   |linear algebra, calculus, and image processing techniques    |
| **Natural language processing (NLP)**  |  focuses on enabling computers to understand, interpret, and generate human language in a meaningful way.   |text and speech, to extract insights, derive meaning, sentiment analysis, language translation, named entity recognition, text summarization, and question answering.    |  probability, statistics, and machine learning    |

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/92a2ddb6-a36c-485c-867b-2810e885dd17)

------
## Machine vs deep learning
> **Deep** learning can **learn from its own errors** while **machine** learning needs a **human to intervene**.
------
## 4. Data science (DS) and analytics
Data analysis involves the process of inspecting, cleaning, transforming, and modeling data to uncover insights, patterns, and trends.  
Data Science is an interdisciplinary field that combines various techniques and methods from statistics, mathematics, computer science, and domain-specific knowledge to extract insights and knowledge from structured and unstructured data.   
<img width="400" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0e2f39fd-b755-46af-b2d3-709db85fbd46">  
## Data science vs Data Analytics
While both fields involve working with data to gain insights, **data science** often involves using data to build models that can **predict future outcomes**,  
while **data analytics** tends to focus more on **analyzing past** data to inform **decisions in the present**.

------
